# osr_dssg2018
## Out of school resources project.
Experiences outside of the school day can be highly enriching to student academic and non-academic learning. For students living in disadvantaged communities, accessing organizations or institutions that provide enrichment programs for the arts, sports, and tutoring, or social services such as counseling, meals, or medical care can be challenging.  And while we know that experiences outside of the school day can be highly enriching to student academic and non-academic learning, they remain elusive to the students who need them the most.  Financial, time, accessibility, and safety constraints can all limit the feasibility of a student going from school or home to an enrichment program or service provider.  

As part of the Data Science for Social Good (DSSG) at University of Washington, five student fellows collaborated with Center for Reinventing Public Education (CRPE) and a non-profit Re School to build an analysis to understand the gaps in the Out-of School Resources (OSR) in Denver, Colarado. The insights and recommendations from this project will help Re School ensure the programs are distributed in such a way that all students in Denver can have equal access to them.


This project specifically analyzes data from ReSchool Colorado’s work around summer opportunities through their “Blueprint4Summer” platform. The online platform is designed to give families a simple method of gaining information about summer programs for their students.  Programs can be searched by category (academics, arts, nature, sports, etc.), cost, location, and other program specific characteristics.  While the platform itself is meant to increase access to summer programs, this research aims to understand the true supply and demand of summer programs for students in Denver. This study will analyze student access to summer programs and public recreational facilities, as well as the demand for programs. 
